
===== PAGE 1 =====
RCAgent: Cloud Root Cause Analysis by
Autonomous Agents with Tool-Augmented
Large Language Models
Zefan Wang1,2,⋆, Zichuan Liu2,3,⋆, Yingying Zhang2,†, Aoxiao Zhong4, Lunting Fan2, Lingfei Wu5, Qingsong Wen6,†
1Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, 2Alibaba Group, Hangzhou, China, 3Nanjing University, Nanjing, China
4Harvard University, Cambridge, USA, 5Anytime.AI Inc., New York, USA, 6Alibaba Group, Bellevue, USA
wang-zf20@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn, zichuanliu@smail.nju.edu.cn, congrong.zyy@alibaba-inc.com,
aoxiaozhong@g.harvard.edu, lunting.fan@taobao.com, lwu@anytime-ai.com, qingsongedu@gmail.com
Abstract—Large language model (LLM) applications in cloud
root cause analysis (RCA) have been actively explored recently.
However, current methods are still reliant on manual workflow
settings and do not unleash LLMs’ decision-making and envi-
ronment interaction capabilities. We present RCAgent, a tool-
augmented LLM autonomous agent framework for practical and
privacy-aware industrial RCA usage. Running on an internally
deployed model rather than GPT families, RCAgent is capable
of free-form data collection and comprehensive analysis with
tools. Our framework combines a variety of enhancements,
including a unique Self-Consistency for action trajectories, and
a suite of methods for context management, stabilization, and
importing domain knowledge. Our experiments show RCAgent’s
evident and consistent superiority over ReAct across all aspects
of RCA—predicting root causes, solutions, evidence, and respon-
sibilities—and tasks covered or uncovered by current rules, as
validated by both automated metrics and human evaluations.
Furthermore, RCAgent has already been integrated into the
diagnosis and issue discovery workflow of the Real-time Compute
Platform for Apache Flink of Alibaba Cloud.
Index Terms—Root Cause Analysis, Large Language Models,
Cloud Systems
I. INTRODUCTION
Cloud computing platforms have been increasingly utilized
for application and service deployment in recent years [1], [2].
Anomalies in cloud computing systems, such as unrecoverable
failures and hanged jobs, severely impact customer experience
and can potentially violate service level agreements [3], [4].
Root Cause Analysis (RCA) [5]–[7], a core component of
site reliability engineering, is currently receiving ongoing
attention from large cloud computing enterprises such as
Amazon, Microsoft, Google, and Alibaba. However, due to
the continuous scaling of computation deployments on the
cloud, manual workflows for online anomaly RCA, such as
creating troubleshooting tools, often overwhelm Site Reliability
Engineers (SREs) [8]. To increase the efficiency of cloud ser-
vice reliability enhancement, a series of Artificial Intelligence
for Operations (AIOps) approaches [9]–[11] have been widely
adopted in RCA to reduce the MTTR (mean time to resolve).
⋆Work done during the internship at Alibaba Group.
† Corresponding authors.
These approaches grant the ability to handle large volumes of
incident-related data in cloud systems and draw conclusions
automatically. While these typical AIOps aid in automated
processes, their application faces challenges such as poor data
quality, shifting data distribution, laborious data annotation,
and limited generalization for models [12].
The advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs),
especially within the GPT [13]–[16] and LLaMA [17], [18]
families, indicate an intriguing future of solving intricate
reasoning tasks. These developments hold significant promise
for addressing challenges in AIOps. One notable strength of
LLMs is their ability to generalize, allowing them to understand
and accomplish unseen reasoning tasks in a zero-shot or few-
shot way. This largely results from the extensive and extrap-
olatable process of pre-training and instruction tuning [13],
[19]. Such adaptability makes LLMs suitable for specialized
and system-specific RCA tasks. Moreover, the performance
of LLMs can be amplified by various prompting strategies.
Techniques like Chain-of-Thought (CoT) [20], [21], Self-
Consistency (SC) [22], Reflexion [23], Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) [24], enhance logical capability and Out-of-
Domain (OoD) generalization. These techniques further reduce
the necessity of high-quality, task-specific annotated training
datasets, particularly in RCA applications. Considering these
inherent advantages and the versatility of LLMs, they emerge
as new fitting solutions for the RCA task.
Recent works demonstrate the use of LLMs in cloud RCA
tasks. Specifically, [4] fine-tunes a GPT model to generate text
from incident summary to root causes and mitigations without
collecting data in the production environment. Oasis [25]
proposes to fine-tune a GPT model using domain-specific data
to predict outage summaries for root cause understanding and
post hoc maintenance. However, these works rely heavily on
the computationally expensive fine-tuning of an LLM to adapt
to cloud system tasks and do not fully utilize the generalization
and reasoning abilities of LLMs. One possible solution is to use
few-shot RAG [24] on LLMs, with representative methods such
as RCACopilot [8] and PACE-LM [26]. RCACopilot employs
an LLM as a summarizer for information acquired by human-
arXiv:2310.16340v1  [cs.SE]  25 Oct 2023

===== PAGE 2 =====
written troubleshooting guides and as a root cause predictor
prompted by recent relevant diagnoses, based on the assumption
that incidents with similar root causes recur within a short
period. PACE-LM enhances the outputs of RAG-based language
models through confidence calibration to mitigate hallucinations
and reduce false recommendations. However, these methods
are all based on the GPT family and scenarios within Microsoft,
not addressing the data privacy concerns associated with
using LLMs with cloud system data. Specifically, potential
security risks tied to transmitting data from cloud production
environments to external APIs, such as ChatGPT [15], could
pose problems for many IT enterprises. Furthermore, none of
the aforementioned methods fully leverage the autonomous
capabilities of LLMs for information collection, decision-
making, and environmental interaction [27].
Tool-augmented autonomous agents, as demonstrated in early
experiments [28], further unlock the potential of LLMs in
interactive environments. By equipping LLMs with defined
tools and associated documentation, and by facilitating tool
invocation through mechanisms like function calls or command
line inputs, and then executing these tools and returning
environmental feedback, LLMs can handle extensive tasks.
These tasks might require expertise and abilities beyond
what LLMs inherently possess, such as web interaction [29],
text-based games [30], and operating system and database
management [31]. A representative paradigm within the realm
of autonomous agents is ReAct [27], a workflow that embodies
a thought-action-observation loop. This approach synergizes the
reasoning and action capabilities of LLMs and offers flexibility
for extensions [32]. Although tool-augmented autonomous
agents based on LLM demonstrate significant potential in
complex scenarios, their adoption in the AIOps field, especially
with noisy and lengthy data, remains limited [33], [34]. The
primary challenges are action validity and context length, both
of which significantly heighten the demands of LLM-as-agent
capabilities [31]. Also, to the best of our knowledge, there is
no interactive environment built upon realistic production-level
RCA problems for LLM agents to operate on.
To this end, we introduce RCAgent, the first practical LLM-
based RCA framework within the tool-augmented autonomous
agent paradigm. We design an enhanced prompting cycle
skeleton and an interactive environment enriched with external
knowledge and stabilization techniques, tailored for LLM
agents to handle diverse data types. This approach addresses
several challenges, including context-length usage, unstable
parsing, and insufficient domain knowledge. Additionally, we
design aggregation methods for action trajectories and text
output, combining suboptimal results from LLMs. Unlike
ReAct, our approach to tool invocation operates in a trajectory-
level zero-shot way, eliminating the need for manual or
auto-generated problem-solving trajectories. Furthermore, to
facilitate general and secure industrial usage, we forgo the
use of powerful external API models like ChatGPT as the
base model for agents and implement this framework on a
locally deployed model, further underscoring the efficacy of
our stabilization method.
The analysis results from RCAgent are being utilized in
the Real-time Compute Platform for Apache Flink of Alibaba
Cloud to diagnose anomalous stream processing jobs uncovered
by current methods. We have incorporated a feedback mecha-
nism in the company to identify issues in the PaaS and IaaS
layers of the cloud system, offering insights for development
teams.
We summarize our contributions as follows:
• We propose RCAgent, the first tool-augmented au-
tonomous agent based on LLM for privacy-aware real-
world cloud RCA, unleashing the decision-making ability
of LLMs in the AIOps field.
• We introduce a bag of methods to enhance the tool agent,
including aspects of prompting framework, tool setting,
stabilization, and aggregation methods. These make the
agent based on locally deployed LLM a valid solution for
complex environments like cloud systems.
• We present real-world experiments on the real-time
computing jobs in Alibaba Cloud, demonstrating the
practical usage of RCAgent.
II. MOTIVATION AND CHALLENGE
A. Online Job Anomaly RCA with AIOps
In cloud services, job anomalies indicate disruptions in
submitted jobs that require human intervention. While big
data systems have fault-tolerance mechanisms like failover
and failback, they do not guarantee job stability. As the
enhancement of reliability, AIOps has been transforming
the cloud incident management workflow for years [12].
Equipped with AIOps approaches, a typical semi-automated
troubleshooting lifecycle includes: (i) anomaly detection based
on data-driven criteria, (ii) RCA using either human insight
or AIOps, and (iii) mitigation measures for job recovery and
prevention of similar anomalies. The RCA task, crucial for
discerning job issues, demands thorough data inspection and
up-to-date domain knowledge from either human experts or
AIOps methods. Essential for cloud system governance and as a
foundation for stability enhancement, RCA is now significantly
automated by AIOps.
However, the intricate and dynamic nature of cloud systems
combined with ever-growing data presents challenges for AIOps
methods. These data-driven methods, relying on historical data,
struggle as data and anomaly patterns evolve, prolonging RCA
and mitigation processes.
B. Benifit of Tool augmented LLM agents
The paradigm of integrating tools into LLMs and instructing
them to perform actions automatically has demonstrated impres-
sive promise across various tasks [28]. While basic LLM usages
are adept at generalizing to OoD data with proper instruction
and few-shot samples, they remain dependent on human-
designed workflows of data collection and analysis [8] which
may periodically be outdated. In contrast, tool-augmented LLM
agents can self-direct their data exploration and external ability
invocation, making them extendable to heterogeneous tasks.
By harnessing LLMs’ power of decision-making, autonomous
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
Sorted Data Index
0
25000
50000
75000
100000
125000
150000
175000
200000
Length
Runtime Log Length Statistics
Token Limit
Character Count
Token Count
Fig. 1: 5-minute runtime log length statistics for different real-
time computing jobs on Alibaba Cloud. The token count is
counted by the LLaMA 2 tokenizer. The token limit for vicuna-
13b-v1.5-16k is marked as a dashed line. Runtime logs larger
than 200k characters are trimmed in this figure.
agents possess significant potential for analyzing unprecedented
and complex anomalies without laboriously annotated training
data.
C. Challenges
Though tool-augmented LLM agents provide new possibili-
ties for the cloud RCA task, there are several critical challenges.
1) Privacy: A general LLM method for RCA and other
cloud AIOps tasks should be internally hosted for security con-
cerns. Specifically, transmitting production-level confidential
data to external API induces privacy risks. This means stronger
models like ChatGPT cannot be used except for those close
collaboration enterprises.
2) Context Length: A fundamental problem for an au-
tonomous agent to interact with realistic big data environments
is context length because various kinds of data, such as logs,
code, and database query results, tend to be enormous. The
length distribution from our experiment data is shown in Fig. 1.
Even if the LLMs can extrapolate to larger context length [35],
processing unnecessarily excessive tokens is highly inefficient.
3) Action Validity: Open-ended action generation for LLMs
is of great challenge because less sufficiently aligned LLMs
have a larger possibility of generating invalid actions [31].
These errors severely damage the performance of autonomous
agents on comprehensive tasks. Moreover, the model restriction
from the privacy concern, and noisy data in cloud systems
make this problem even more arduous.
III. METHODOLOGY
To systematically and reliably prompt the LLM as a tool-
augmented autonomous agent for cloud RCA, we propose
RCAgent, an enhanced reasoning and acting framework. An
overview of our methodology at the decision-loop level and its
comparison to the tool agent version of ReAct [27] is shown in
Fig. 2. For disambiguousity, the LLM agent with the prompt of
thought-action-observation loop is named the controller agent,
and RCAgent additionally employs the LLM as tools called
the expert agents.
In concordance with the typical ReAct-style tool agent
prompt framework [36], the controller agent is injected with
three basic prompts: (i) framework rules that describe the
thought-action-observation loop, (ii) task requirements that
contain instructions for the RCA tasks with basic cloud
knowledge, and (iii) tools documentation that describes the
description of all invokable tools. Because of its flexibility and
readability, JSON is chosen as the data interchange format for
all generations in the action step from LLM. We also define
a tool named ‘finalize’ as an exit point that allows the model
to freely decide when to report findings in a parsable format.
Note that RCAgent discards the few-shot examples compared
to the original ReAct because of limited context length.
Starting from the tool agent version of ReAct, we propose
several enhancements to address the challenges of using tool-
augmented LLM agents in cloud RCA. We will first introduce
an observation management method for compressing context
length usage in § III-A. Then, we describe the design of tools,
including LLM-augmented tools in § III-B. The stabilizing
methods for action validity are presented in § III-C. Lastly, we
detail the aggregation method of RCAgent in § III-D.
A. Observation Snapshot Key
One of the basic challenges of building autonomous agents
in a comprehensive big data environment is context length [8].
The most inflating part of the agent prompt is the observation
content in the action trajectories, containing a large amount
of logs, table entries, etc. To overcome the information loss
from truncating and summarizing observations, we propose
OBservation Snapshot Key (OBSK), a new method to address
the context length problem in realistic cloud tasks. As shown
in Fig. 2, OBSK only shows the head of observation to the
controller agent, leaving a hash ID (snapshot key) for further
usage. A key-value store is built for mapping the snapshot
key to real observation. Thus, when a snapshot key is found
in a parsed action, RCAgent queries through the key-value
store and returns the corresponding observation. This ensures
necessary information with controlled length is provided for the
controller agent as supportive information for decision-making.
An example of using the OBSK mechanism is shown in
Fig. 3. With the runtime log function giving extensive error
log as observation, its tail content is omitted for brevity, and
the whole observation is mapped to a snapshot key. The usage
of snapshot keys is to pass them as parameters to tools in
the form of function calling, using external methods to handle
the lengthy data, such as log agent in Fig. 3. These rules of
OBSK are elaborated in the system prompt, instructing the
LLM to use snapshots instead of directly handling long text
as parameters if needed.
B. Tool Preperation
In this subsection, we provide a general compound paradigm
for tool design in root cause analysis tasks, which is extendable
to different cloud systems and platforms. We employ data
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
head
snapshot
Thought and Action
Environment
Expert Agent Prompt
Log System
Databases
Code Repositories
Error handling
Action Cycle of RCAgent
Framework 
Rules
Task 
Requirement
Tools 
Documentation
Controller Agent Memory
Thought and Action
Parsed Action
Environment
Observation
Few-shot Example
Action Cycle of ReAct
Framework 
Rules
Task 
Requirement
Tools 
Documentation
Controller Agent Memory
Parsed Action
Y
N
Real Observation
/ Error Traceback
Agent?
N
N
Y
Error?
Y
N
Expert Agent
.
observation head
Error?
(snapshot to observation) 
Memory flow
LLM generation
Error log
Env interaction
snapshot 3
observation 3
Key-value store
LLM agent
Observation
snapshot 1
observation 1
snapshot 2
observation 2
.  
Fig. 2: Overview of the different action cycles from ReAct (left) and RCAgent (right). Both action cycles involve generating
verbal thoughts, taking actions, and receiving observation from the environment, all of which are recorded in the prompt
alongside the initial memory to boost reasoning. Besides, our RCAgent includes the key-value store for observation retrieval,
allowing the agent to operate on text data much larger than the context length constraint. After parsing the action, our RCAgent
executes the action directly or invokes an expert agent, depending on the type of tool.
querying functions as information-gathering tools and LLM-
based expert agents as analytical tools, similar to the data
collection and analysis process done by human SREs.
1) Information-gathering Tools: Information-gathering tools
are designed in an easy-to-use way, hiding all unrelated details
in accessing data in cloud systems. For example, instead of
giving SQL interface and Log query API to LLM, these tools
only accept simple parameters like the ID of entities. This kind
of semantically minimalist tool setting will significantly reduce
the threshold for LLMs to take valid actions and prevent them
from useless exploration in large data warehouses. Adhering
to this design principle will result in shorter and less intricate
tool documentation, preserving valuable context length for the
controller agent. Also, to reduce the computational cost induced
by meaningless repetitive data in logs and tables, and make
it less likely for LLMs to fall in repetitive degeneration [37],
it’s necessary to deduplicate retrieved information. We do so
by fuzzy-matching all data entries returned by each tool and
eliminating the duplicates.
2) Analytical Tools: Analytical tools are proposed to extend
the domain knowledge and abilities of the controller agent. In
cloud system tasks, most domain knowledge-dependent tasks,
e.g., log analysis, often require analyzing a large amount of
data. This naturally leads to an analyze-aggregate method.
Additionally, the analytical tools can be augmented by LLMs
with their reasoning ability. We name this kind of analytical
tool the expert agent, which is shown in Fig. 2. We provide
two expert agents for RCAgent as complementary knowledge
tools, called the code analysis tool and the log analysis tool,
which are described in detail below. Both generate analyses
and aggregations prompted by the zero-shot CoT [20] and
answer extraction instructions.
Code analysis tool. The code analysis tool works in a
recursive manner, which is shown in Fig. 4. Given a class name,
the code analysis tool searches the corresponding file in the
code repository. After the LLM reading and analyzing the code
file, it is prompted to suggest any other classes that would be
helpful to analyze as supportive information. These suggestions
from each code-reading round will be stored in a task queue,
managing all pending tasks. With this exhaustive search, the
code analysis tool stops parsing when no more code files of
interest are recommended, or when all remaining recommended
files are external dependencies. Then, we utilize an LLM to
summarize all the code files, whose result is presented to the
controller agent as the observation. This tool can extend domain
knowledge such as the working mechanism of diagnose tools
to the LLM control agent.
Log analysis tool. The log analysis tool operates in an
in-context RAG paradigm with some adaptions to lengthy log
data. The complete mechanism is shown in Algorithm 1. To
reduce the context window requirement, we use a semantic
partitioning method to split the log into shorter chunks while
preserving its relative completeness. Specifically, we split the
log L into lines S and built edges between lines with the cosine
similarity of embeddings exponentially decayed by document
distance as weights W. This yields a weighted undirected dense
graph G regarding lines as vertices. Then the graph is clustered
with Louvain community detection [38]. Since the clustering
method is unaware of the requirement of log chunking that
each cluster must be internally continuous, we remove overlaps
by greedily switching the minimum amount of clustering labels.
The partitioned log chunks P are then fed into the log agent one
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
Example of OBSK Mechanism
Thought: I will now proceed to examine the runtime logs of
the taskmanager and jobmanager for the Flink job using the
"runtime log" function.
Function: {
"function": "runtime log",
"kwargs": {
"job id": "**********"
}
}
Observation:
org.apache.flink.runtime.taskexecutor.
TaskManagerRunner <::> - A fatal error occurred while
executing the TaskManager. Shutting it down...
stdout F org.apache.flink.util.FlinkRuntimeException: The
task did not exit gracefully within 180 + seconds.
...53 lines omitted.
[ snapshot: 2975241420 ]
Thought: The "runtime log" function returned the runtime
logs of the taskmanager and jobmanager for the Flink job.
The logs indicate that the task did not exit gracefully within
180 seconds. I will now use the "log agent" function to
analyze a long log with another agent and provide cause,
solution, and evidence.
Function: {
"function": "log agent",
"kwargs": {
"snapshot": ”2975241420”
}
}
Observation:
. . . . . .
Fig. 3: An example of OBSK usage in RCAgent to compress
observation.
chunk per round. After the above semantic partitioning process,
in-context learning with similarity retrieved samples ICP (In-
Context Prompt) is performed, generating log analysis with
related domain knowledge. Moreover, we instruct the expert
agent to output evidence supporting its analysis by directly
copying log content. This is based on our observation that LLM
hallucinates occasionally and analyzes in-context examples
rather than the partitioned chunk. Intuitively this phenomenon
might result from long prompt content burying the delimiters
between the example and target data. If the evidence listed by
LLMs cannot be fuzzy-matched to the chunk p, the analysis
result is discarded. Thus, we ensure reliable RAG analysis on
lengthy non-natural language.
C. Stablization
To overcome the degradation of LLM action validity induced
by noisy data and local LLMs with less capability, we introduce
two stabilization methods for tool invocation: JSON repairing
and error handling. We describe them in detail as follows.
1) JSON Repairing: One of the vital problems in real-world
applications of tool-augmented LLM autonomous agents is
structured inference for parsable data. To our knowledge, there
is no pain-free method to guarantee a specific data format
… …
JobConnectorSinkConnectionFailService
The `JobConnectorSinkConnectionFail
Service` class extends `RuleDecisionBase` 
and implements the `getDecisionValue` 
method…
To complement the analysis of this class, it 
would be helpful to read the 
`FlinkLifecycleMapper` and the 
`RuleDecisionBase` class…
TASK QUEUE
Function: 
Checks if there are any 
`FlinkLifecycle` events with 
the name ending in 
`SINK_CONN_ERROR` and 
occurred within the last 
300000 milliseconds
Methods: 
Extends `RuleDecisionBase` 
and implements the 
`getDecisionValue` method, 
which takes a `DeploymentDto` 
object as input and returns a 
`DecisionValueResult` object. 
The class uses the 
`FlinkLifecycleMapper` 
interface to retrieve 
information about the lifecycle 
of Flink jobs based on their 
deployment ID, job ID, and 
other criteria. If such an event 
is found, the class sets the 
value of the 
`DecisionValueResult` object 
to 1 and returns it. If no such 
event is found, the method 
returns an empty 
`DecisionValueResult` object.
FlinkLifecycleMapper
The `FlinkLifecycleMapper` interface is a 
data access layer. It provides methods to 
retrieve the lifecycle of Flink jobs.
It would be helpful to review the code file 
containing the `FlinkLifecycle` class.
RuleDecisionBase
The `RuleDecisionBase` is an abstract 
class that implements the `RuleDecision` 
interface. It provides a base 
implementation for the decision-making.
It seems that the `RuleDecisionBase` class 
is a standalone class that does not depend 
on any other classes. 
Therefore, no suggestion is needed.
Summarization: 
Parsed Action
.
Fig. 4: Code analysis tool in RCAgent.
(e.g., JSON) for interactions between LLM agents and the
environment. Even though there are some toolkits, such as
JSONFormer1 and TypeChat2, that help generate the correct
JSON string, they either cannot generate free-form JSON
with extensive escape characters while not impair generation
quality, or solely rely on LLMs’ capability of token-level
error correction. When the structured output from LLM grows
complex, containing information from noisy cloud system data,
its insensitivity to token-level errors, including redundant or
missing escape slashes and other control symbols, becomes
problematic. These erroneous interchange data may lead to
failures in both the controller and expert agents who rely on
structured data for communication. To solve this issue, we
employ an intuitive and effective method to generate structured
interchange data named JsonRegen, as shown in Algorithm 2.
Before LLM inference, all sensitive characters that may
correspond to control symbols in JSON, and do not belong
to real JSON objects such as action history, are replaced with
insensitive ones for a clean prompt. For example, double quotes
are reduced to single quotes, and ‘[’ and ‘{’ are replaced by
‘<:’ and ‘<%’3. This reduces the risk of LLMs’ quoting content
as outputs without proper escaping. When trivial cleaning of
wrong escape patterns fails to make the JSON-like string from
LLM output parsable, which is extracted through curly bracket
matching, a regeneration process is performed. To enforce the
1 https://github.com/1rgs/jsonformer
2 https://github.com/microsoft/TypeChat
3 We borrowed digraphs from the C language standard.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
Algorithm 1 Pseudo code for log expert agent.
Require: Log L, Max prompt length N
Ensure: Interpretations ˜R, Evidences ˜E
1: S ←split L using delimiters (e.g., newline)
2: vs ←EMBEDDINGMODEL(s) for each s in S
3: W = {wij} empty weight matrix
4: for pairs (si, sj) in S × S where j −i ∈(0, 200] do
5:
dij ←position distance between si and sj in L
6:
simij ←cosine similarity of vsi and vsj
7:
wij ←simij × exp(−dij)
8: end for
9: G ←(S, W)
10: C ←LOUVAINCLUSTERING(G)
11: C′ ←GREEDYOVERLAPREMOVAL(C)
12: P ←partitions from L indicted by components C′
13: R′, E′ ←empty initialized filtered results
14: for each partition p in P do
15:
E, A ←retrieved sorted examples and answers
16:
ICP ←empty initialized in-context prompt
17:
for (e, a) in (E, A) do
18:
if ICP not exceeding N then
19:
ICP ←ICP ∪(e, a)
20:
end if
21:
end for
22:
R, E ←LLMANALYSIS(ICP, p)
23:
▷Interpretations and evidence generated from LLM
24:
for each (r, e) in R, E do
25:
if LEVENSHTEIN(e, p) < L(p) - L(e) × 0.9 then
26:
R′ ←R′ ∪r
27:
E′ ←E′ ∪e
▷Filter hallucinations
28:
end if
29:
end for
30: end for
31: ˜R, ˜E ←LLMSUMMARY(R′, E′)
32: return ˜R, ˜E
understanding of JSON structure for the LLM, we instruct it
to convert the content to YAML. The LLM is then prompted
to regenerate a JSON with the same structure and content. The
regeneration proceeds for several rounds until a valid JSON is
parsed or the retry count is exceeded.
2) Error Handling: The previous work [36] demonstrates
that LLMs in tool invocation tend to propagate errors, limiting
exploratory actions. These issues are even more pronounced in
less capable LLMs. Inspired by [23], we use pre-defined criteria
to mark problematic actions or states as erroneous. As shown
in Fig. 2, we provide error messages and suggestions to the
controller agent, including these circumstances: (i) duplicate
invocation of stateless tools with the same arguments, (ii)
trivial input to expert agents, and (iii) early finalizing without
thorough investigation. These error messages can reduce the
frequency of meaningless actions taken by the control agent
by alerting it to avoid repeating the same mistakes.
Algorithm 2 JsonRegen procedure for a structured generation.
Require: Model for generation LLM, input prompt P
Ensure: Structured Output O
1: Sensitive, Clean ←Control symbols and their substitute
2: Escaped, Original ←Wrong escape patterns in JSON
3: Pclean ←REPLACE(P, Sensitive, Clean)
4:
▷This replacement ignores JSON objects in P
5: J ←LLM(Pclean)
6: for retry count less than limit do
7:
J ←REPLACE(J, Escaped, Original)
8:
J ←FINDJSON(J)
▷Bracket matching
9:
if J is parsable then
10:
break
11:
end if
12:
Y ←LLM(“Extract structure into YAML”,J)
13:
J ←LLM(“Restore to correct JSON”,Y )
14: end for
15: if J is parsable then
16:
O ←JSONPARSE(J)
17: else
18:
O ←EmptyObject
19: end if
20: return O
D. Self-Consistency Aggregation
Self-Consistency (SC) [22] has proved its efficacy in various
close-ended NLP tasks, including multi-choice and numerical
problems. However, aggregating sampled open-ended multi-
step generation like RCA with LLM agent, is underexplored.
To our knowledge, utilizing SC on ReAct style traces is also
not well-defined or rigorously investigated. Thus, we propose
applying the SC paradigm to free-form generation on the topic
of LLM autonomous agents, and introduce them in two aspects:
SC for text data and SC for tool using trajectories.
1) Self-Consistency for Text Data.: SC is initially proposed
to ensemble close-ended results with CoT and cannot aggregate
open-ended text results from ReAct trajectories. To apply SC
to text data, we utilize two methods in our experiments:
• Vote with embedding. We directly generalize the idea
of unweighted SC (majority vote), which performs best
across all tasks [22]. The voting can be rewritten as
arg maxi(similarity(ai, 1
K
K
X
j
(aj))),
where K is sample count, and ai is a one-hot vector
representing sampled result i with each position as a
candidate choice or numerical result. We simply replace
a as semantic embeddings for text output. This intuitively
means the text result closest to the majority is chosen as
an aggregated result.
• Aggregate with LLMs. Considering the possible diversity
of generated content, we prompt LLM to aggregate the
candidates and output in similar form and length.
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
…   
RCAgent TSC
CoT SC
Start
Thought
Finalize
Thought
Finalize
Thought
Finalize
… …  
Aggregation
Start
Step
Step
Step
…   
Finalize
Finalize
Step
Finalize
Step
Step
… …  
Finalize
Aggregation
Greedy
Sample
Combine
Thought
Thought
Thought
Thought
Fig. 5: Trajectory-level Self-Consistency compared to vanilla Self-Consistency. Every Step in RCAgent means a sequential
procedure of thought, action, and observation.
2) Self-Consistency for Tool Using Trajectories: SC has
been comprehensively tested on CoT reasoning paths, and
can naturally be utilized on ReAct style trajectories. However,
directly sampling multiple cycles of thought-action-observation
can be computationally expensive. This is even more costly
while some actions, such as activating expert agents, have
substantial consumption. Moreover, random sampling from the
first step without history or few-shot examples leads to flooding
erroneous actions, e.g. consecutive calling of non-existent tools.
Therefore, we propose a mid-way sampling method named
Trajectory-level Self-Consistency (TSC) as shown in Fig. 5.
Specifically, only when the controller agent is stepping into
finalization does the sampling start from the second last step.
This sampling strategy shares most preliminary steps between
trajectory samples and reduces unnecessary consumption.
Besides, the more stable action history from greedy decoding
provides exemplification without additional context-length
consumption from few-shot examples, thereby suppressing
the validity drop from sampling. We don’t constrain the steps
of further actions, allowing for multiple or even zero steps of
action sampling until either finalization is reached or a global
upper bound is met. This method strikes a balance between
full-process SC on agent trajectories and one-step CoT SC. It
preserves stability at the initial phases of information collection
while also promoting diversity in reasoning paths.
IV. EXPERIMENT
We develop and evaluate RCAgent on the Real-time Compute
Platform in Alibaba Cloud, which is an enterprise-level,
high-performance system capable of real-time stream data
computation based on Apache Flink. This system is largely
optimized on the community version and achieves a throughput
of 100 million data records per second during peak hours.
Hence, our experiment is based on complex, real-world, and
crucial cloud systems.
As the key contribution of our work, we build a tool-
augmented autonomous agent based on locally hosted LLM to
accomplish the task of cloud RCA and demonstrate its efficacy
on real-world cloud systems. We should ensure the stability of
agent actions and the quality of the analysis result, enabling it
to work in the production environment. To achieve and verify
this, we answer the following questions with experiments.
• RQ1: How effective is RCAgent as a comprehensive RCA
agent on the real-world cloud system?
• RQ2: To what extent does each design component in
RCAgent contribute?
• RQ3: Is RCAgent superior at generating efficient and
stable decision trajectories?
• RQ4: Is RCAgent useful for real production services
and does it cover anomalies beyond the scope of current
troubleshooting rules?
• RQ5: How much does Self-Consistency improve agents
of different methods and sampling scales?
In the following subsections, we discuss the configurations
of our experiment.
A. Model Configuration
The base model in our implementation is Vicuna-13B-
V1.5-16K [39], one of the LLaMA 2 [18] fine-tuned models
with extended context length. We do model inference with
vLLM [40] backend on a single NVIDIA A100 SXM4 GPU
(80 GB). To make most results reproducible and stable, we use
the greedy decoding strategy by default. To reduce repetitive
degeneration [37] and prevent quality downgrade introduced
by decoding penalty and sampling [22], we use an adaptive
penalty strategy to suppress repetition: whenever a generation
exceeds a token threshold (e.g., 4096, suggesting a looping
pattern), the generation is restarted with +0.5 repetition and
frequency penalty. This penalty adjustment can be applied
iteratively if repetition persists. During self-consistency where
random sampling is required, we use the default configuration
of Vicuna: 0.9 temperature and 0.6 nucleus sampling.
The embedding model we use is GTE-LARGE [41], for its
slightly better results on MTEB [42] than text-embedding-ada-
002 from OpenAI, providing an internally deployable substitute.
For Self-Consistency results, we use 10 output samples by
default. The experiment about Self-Consistency sample count
with 10 different runs is also provided. We employ a step-
wise Self-Consistency denoted as SC in tables and figures,
which only accepts samples that finalize synchronously with
the greedy geocoding trajectory. This trajectory solely samples
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
Platform responsibility refers to problems that can only be fixed
by the platform maintainer. This includes but is not limited to:
1.
IaaS
layer:
Issues
such
as
hardware
failures,
network
connection failures, and OS system upgrades.
2. PaaS layer: Actions like evicting a Flink job for higher
priority jobs, overselling computational resources leading to
resource
release,
anomalies
in
administrative
services
(API
server, SQL server, etc.), and bugs or incompatibilities in
the Ververica Runtime (VVR) and other associated cloud system
components.
3. Unspecified problems: Problems that more investigation and
diagnosis about the cloud system should be carried on to mitigate.
User responsibility refers to incorrect or intentional misuse of
the Flink platform by the user and any kind of problems that
could fixed by the user in self-service. This includes but is not
limited to:
1. User Deliberate Operations: Actions like canceling the job
through SDK/gRPC requests, or via the Ververica Platform control
console.
2. Configuration Errors: Issues such as resource insufficiency
(memory
leaks,
configuration
mistakes,
insufficient
resource
quota), or lack of proper HA (High Availability services like
restart or checkpointing) settings.
3. Code Issues: Problems like syntactical errors, and issues
that could be resolved by changing the code. This also includes
exceptions thrown by the process or by upstream and downstream
services.
4. Best Practices Violations: Any problem about which a practical
mitigation
suggestion
is
clearly
given
to
the
user
to
fix,
including those problems somewhat related to the infrastructure
or platform level.
Fig. 6: Responsibility determination rules for annotation. These
rules are also presented to LLM as task instructions.
the thinking process which typically performs in CoT style
before the finalizing function, without the chance of additional
action steps.
B. Dataset Preperation
1) Anomaly Selection: For root cause analysis, we collect a
dataset of 15, 616 anomalous jobs, either unrecoverable fail, or
fail to start in 6 minutes. We filter the data and obtain about
5, 000 non-trivial anomalous jobs with substantial log content.
We use the Flink Advisor knowledge base, which is a large
rule set distilled from experienced SREs’ domain knowledge,
to create analysis results for these jobs. 2, 154 of these jobs
are successfully analyzed by Flink Advisor, while the rest are
mostly long-tailed problems or unresolved problems.
Due to the imbalance of anomalies, which means a large
proportion of anomalies have the same root cause, we reduce
the successfully analyzed jobs to an offline dataset of 161 jobs.
The reduction is done with the class-balance constraint that no
more than two jobs have identical root causes, making sure
there are no prevalent easy RCA tasks. The required annotation
of these jobs contains four items:
• root cause, the fundamental cause of the anomaly
• solution, the mitigation method to deal with the problem
• evidence, the direct supportive information for determining
the result
• responsibility, who should care about the problem among
users or platform according to rules in Fig. 6
Example Annotations
Root cause: High pressure or anomalies in the Elasticsearch
client, resulting in connection timeouts
Solution: If there are multiple timeouts, it is recommended
to seek help from Elasticsearch’s product ticket service or
manual support.
Evidence:
“SocketTimeoutException”
problem
in
“org.apache.flink.elasticsearch”
Responsibility: Platform
Root cause: Bucket lacks lifecycle rules for version control
Solution: Configure lifecycle rules on OSS to periodically
clean up and delete unnecessary tagging and historical
versions to avoid job failures caused by too many deletion
tags
Evidence:
“RequestTimeTooSkewed”
and
“The
differ-
ence between the request time and the current time
is too large” messages with exception stack “...
os-
shadoop.shaded.com.alibaba.oss.OSSException”
Responsibility: User
Fig. 7: Example annotations for two jobs.
Examples of the label are shown in Fig. 7. To align with
the annotation format, the controller agent is instructed in its
documentation to return all the above items as arguments in
their finalization function tool.
The annotation process for these jobs is LLM-assisted.
We first use LLM to summarize the analysis result from
Flink Advisor and output the above four items. Then human
proofreading and correction are done by the SRE team.
The remaining jobs that are neither trivial nor analyzable
by Flink Advisor are semantically clustered, resulting in 36
representative online cases. These potential OoD cases are
beyond the capability of the current rules and are manually
labeled by experienced SREs with two items: responsibility
and root cause.
We guarantee that all of our annotations do not show similar
but uninformative patterns like “The root cause of this anomaly
is ...” that cause some of the semantic scores untrustworthy,
as is discovered in [4], [25].
2) Data Sources: The available data sources, on which we
build information-gathering tools for the LLM agent, of the
above anomalous jobs include
• Log data at three levels: platform, runtime, and infrastruc-
ture, stored and queried in SLS (Simple Log Service) of
Alibaba Cloud.
• Database containing the history of advisor services
• Repositories containing the code of advisor services
For log and database entries, only data before the detection
time of the anomaly can be retrieved, preventing the analysis
of future information and adhering to real-world usage.
The retrieval log database for the log analysis agent is a
history subset of Flink Advisor. We guarantee that no analysis
rules for labeling are present in the log database by strict
filtering.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
C. Evaluation Metrics
Besides semantic metric scores including METEOR [43],
BERTScore [44] (deberta-large-mnli), NUBIA [45] (6-dim),
BLEURT [46], and BARTScore [47] (F-Score, CNNDM),
we use additional embedding Score (EmbScore), the cosine
similarity from the default embedding model in our experiment:
EmbScore = 1 + cos < Emb(p), Emb(r) >
2
,
where p is the predicted result and r is the ground truth. Due to
the narrow numerical range impairing the readability of some
metrics when evaluating RCA results, also shown in [4], we
add a normalized score for BERTScore and EmbScore:
NormScore(p, r) = Score(p, r) −Score(b, r)
1 −Score(b, r)
,
where b is baseline content, being ’Unclear’ in our experiments.
The baseline content is also automatically filled for trajectories
that either fail or return incomplete items in the results.
To evaluate the validness of action trajectories and stability
of the autonomous agent, we add Pass Rate and Invalid Rate
indicating how much proportion of trajectories successfully
exit by calling the finalizing function within 15 steps, and
how much proportion of actions are invalid, averaged across
trajectories, respectively.
We also follow the common practice of using stronger models
to estimate model prediction [36], [39], [48]. We use greedy
decoding gpt-4-0613, a frozen version of GPT4 [16] for better
reproducibility. We prompt the model to judge the accuracy
and helpfulness of root cause and solution predictions, marked
as G-Correctness and G-Helpfulness, respectively, and give
a score within 0 ∼10. The prompts we use are:
Judge the correctness of the prediction, 0 is
completely wrong and 10 is well-matched
Judge the helpfulness of the prediction, 0 is
completely misleading and 10 is very helpful
A Win Rate metric is calculated with GPT evaluation by
judging if the result from each method is better than the one
from ReAct.
For human evaluation, we present our results from trajec-
tories to 7 members of the SRE team, instructing each of
them to assign a 0 ∼5 H-Helpfulness score to every result.
A thorough guideline is provided on each score for justified
scoring, e.g., 0 for misleading, 3 for moderately helpful with
related content, and 5 for exceptionally helpful and well-aligned.
Each participant is required to evaluate the entirety of the
presented results, ensuring comprehensive coverage.
Based on our observation, certain online jobs require inves-
tigation beyond the current agent’s environment reachabilities,
e.g., knowledge about underlying connections between different
cloud systems. Accordingly, we identify these jobs based on
human feedback and exempt their human evaluation scores.
V. RESULT
A. RQ1: How effective is RCAgent as a comprehensive RCA
agent on the real-world cloud system?
We present the effectiveness of RCAgent on the offline
dataset in TABLE I, II, and III. RCAgent outperforms the orig-
inal ReAct in all aspects of comprehensive RCA encompassing
root cause, solution, and evidence prediction. The performance
superiority is evident and consistent across all LLM evaluation
metrics, including a 72.67% and 69.25% Win Rate against
ReAct in the root cause and solution prediction subtasks,
respectively. Moreover, when it comes to semantic metrics,
RCAgent generally leads by a significant margin. Especially in
the task of predicting evidence supporting the RCA, RCAgent
achieves a remarkable +16.28 METEOR score over ReAct,
highlighting its ability of data collection and evidence synthesis.
Employing TSC aggregation using LLM summarization, the
overall performance of RCAgent gains further enhancements,
especially on solution prediction witnessing gains of +3.51
METEOR, +4.50 BLEURT, +7.18 NUBIA and +2.08% Win
Rate. This boost can be explained by the broader diversity
of solution sampling compared to other subtasks. Note that
there is a slight dip in BERTScore after LLM aggregation,
which might be influenced by LLM’s paraphrasing tendencies
affecting token-level pairing.
In summary, these results show RCAgent’s superiority
against vanilla ReAct.
B. RQ2: To what extent does each design component in
RCAgent contribute?
To gauge the contribution of each component of RCAgent,
we conduct an ablation study by successively removing
enhancements introduced by RCAgent, including LLM expert
agents, JsonRegen, and OBSK. The ablative result is shown in
TABLE I,II, and III.
1) w/o LLM Expert Agents: When experts are removed,
we see a drastic drop in all metrics, such as +8.71 to
+3.16 METEOR on root cause prediction, with only marginal
improvement over ReAct. This shows the power of building
analytical tools for the LLM. Indeed, relieving the burden of
the controller agent directly analyzing complex data greatly
enhances the LLM agent.
2) w/o JsonRegen: When JsonRegen is gone, meaning the
controller and expert agents generate more malformed output,
RCAgent also loses a large proportion of its performance,
primarily due to erroneous decisions.
3) w/o OBSK: After removing OBSK, marked as Re-
Act+JsonRegen+LLM experts in tables, the controller agent
cannot use snapshots anymore and has to operate on truncated
data. The absence of snapshots impacts the overall metrics,
including −1.90 BLEURT and −0.35 G-Correctness on root
cause prediction, though not as dramatically as excluding the
LLM experts. This indicates that the controller can still put
analysis on the log with the expert. However, a large part of
the environmental observation is lost.
Additionally, We experiment by removing the observation
head and only showing a snapshot to the controller agent in
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
TABLE I: Results of root cause prediction on Flink jobs. Bold denotes the best results. (Bracketed) mean normalized scores.
Model
Semantic Metrics
LLM Evaluation
METEOR
BERTScore
EmbScore
NUBIA
BLEURT
BARTScore
G-Correctness
Win Rate
RCAgent
15.15
54.80(29.99)
91.47(31.38)
19.45
31.57
-5.74
6.23
72.67
RCAgent w/o LLM experts
9.60
51.48(24.89)
90.33(22.32)
15.04
27.77
-6.02
5.55
61.49
RCAgent w/o JsonRegen
13.89
52.40(26.14)
90.74(25.79)
17.33
27.72
-5.84
5.68
63.66
RCAgent w/o Obs Head
12.27
54.16(28.96)
91.30(30.14)
17.96
30.47
-5.87
6.04
65.52
ReAct+JsonRegen+LLM experts
12.37
52.61(26.53)
90.97(27.48)
18.76
29.67
-5.77
5.88
64.28
ReAct
6.44
49.14(21.29)
89.64(16.88)
12.03
25.17
-6.20
4.88
50.00
RCAgent+SC (LLM)
15.94±0.44
54.06±0.04(28.75±0.05)
91.59±0.06(32.40±0.50)
23.24±0.87
33.74±0.44
-5.48±0.04
6.35±0.01
72.77±1.28
RCAgent+TSC (LLM)
16.49±0.09
53.90±0.31(28.57±0.50)
91.67±0.03(33.00±0.26)
25.14±1.22
34.43±0.59
-5.40±0.01
6.43±0.02
74.53±0.91
TABLE II: Results of solution generation on Flink jobs. Bold denotes the best results. (Bracketed) mean normalized scores.
Model
Semantic Metrics
Model Evaluation
METEOR
BERTScore
EmbScore
NUBIA
BLEURT
BARTScore
G-Helpfullness
Win Rate
RCAgent
12.94
55.64(38.84)
91.36(30.26)
21.32
34.68
-4.17
5.11
69.25
RCAgent w/o LLM experts
8.46
51.47(33.07)
90.43(22.61)
16.53
30.46
-4.63
4.32
61.49
RCAgent w/o JsonRegen
11.41
51.58(33.23)
90.83(25.83)
20.51
31.25
-4.40
4.44
62.73
ReAct+JsonRegen+LLM experts
10.34
53.23(35.48)
90.96(26.76)
19.03
32.13
-4.37
4.67
65.84
ReAct
6.42
48.05(28.33)
89.92(18.61)
14.19
26.97
-4.90
3.56
50.00
RCAgent+SC (LLM)
15.27±0.19
55.17±0.03(38.16±0.04)
91.74±0.03(33.26±0.23)
27.56±0.50
37.94±0.03
-4.00±0.00
5.24±0.03
71.43±0.25
RCAgent+TSC (LLM)
16.45±0.06
55.45±0.33(38.53±0.45)
91.96±0.06(35.04±0.45)
28.50±0.38
39.18±0.13
-3.94±0.08
5.32±0.04
71.33±0.29
TABLE III:
Semantic scores of evidence of methods with
different observation exposure.
Model
Semantic Metrics
METEOR
EmbScore
BARTScore
RCAgent
28.10
92.14
-4.62
RCAgent w/o LLM experts
13.10
90.63
-5.63
ReAct+JsonRegen+LLM experts
17.79
91.12
-5.13
ReAct
11.82
90.03
-5.74
RCAgent+SC (LLM)
30.15±0.83
92.60±0.06
-4.41±0.05
RCAgent+TSC (LLM)
30.84±0.43
92.78±0.02
-4.29±0.02
TABLE IV: Trajectory statistics of different settings. Bold
denotes the best results.
Model
Pass Rate
Trajectory Length
Invalid Rate
RCAgent
99.38
6.78
7.93
RCAgent w/o LLM experts
92.55
6.93
16.24
RCAgent w/o JsonRegen
85.71
7.91
18.75
ReAct+JsonRegen+LLM experts
96.89
7.21
18.34
ReAct
86.33
7.48
22.82
RCAgent+Sampling
70.19
10.66
44.80
the root cause prediction subtask. This removal incurs the least
performance degradation, like −1.10 BLEURT and −0.19 G-
Correctness, implying that the snapshot mechanism outweighs
the benefit of the observation itself.
C. RQ3: Is RCAgent superior at generating efficient and stable
decision trajectories?
We study the action trajectories of different settings in
TABLE IV. With all enhancements, the RCAgent achieves
a 99.38% Pass Rate and a 7.93% Invalid Rate, meaning nearly
perfect stability and a significant edge over ReAct. With such a
minuscule chance of generating problematic actions, RCAgent
consistently delivers more accurate and helpful RCA results
with shorter trajectories.
When the LLM expert or OBSK is removed, the controller
agent still maintains a high Pass Rate exceeding 90%, thanks
to the stabilization strategies. However, both absence leads to
an error-prone exploration, diverting some of its actions toward
redundant tool invocations, possibly due to a less efficient
analytical process. The removal of JsonRegen significantly
damages the stability due to the invalidness of the data
interchange between agents and the environment. An interesting
phenomenon is that ReAct exhibits a marginally lower Pass
Rate than RCAgent without JsonRegen. This discrepancy can be
attributed to an oversimplified analytical environment, making
the agent opt for quitting with a finalization tool.
Moreover, when the default decoding strategy for the
controller agent is changed to nucleus sampling, marked
as RCAgent+Sampling, the stability collapses to 70.19%
Pass Rate and 44.80% Invalid Rate. The trajectory with this
condition contains many erroneous actions and hallucinations
about the tool documentation. This is likely due to the absence
of exemplifying action histories. Such results highlight the
vitality of optimal decoding during initial steps and lead to
the consideration of our mid-way TSC rather than a pure
full-process SC.
D. RQ4: Is RCAgent useful for real production services
and does it cover anomalies beyond the scope of current
troubleshooting rules?
We thoroughly test RCAgent’s performance on the online
dataset with human evaluation shown in TABLE V. Consistent
with all LLM and semantic metrics, the human evaluators in the
SRE team express a positive estimation of 2.92 H-Helpfulness.
The score indicates our best RCAgent result generally offers
moderate support for RCA. This result substantially outper-
forms ReAct’s 1.36 H-Helpfulness, the evaluation guideline of
which means vague and lacking related content.
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
TABLE V: Evaluations on the online dataset.
Model
Root Cause
Responsibility
Human
METEOR
NUBIA
BLEURT
BARTScore
G-Correctness
Win Rate
Precision
H-Helpfulness
ReAct
5.21
10.38
20.33
-6.25
4.47
50.00
58.82
1.36±0.03
RCAgent
13.77
19.48
31.52
-5.59
5.47
61.76
76.47
2.47±0.17
RCAgent+TSC (LLM)
15.72±0.61
26.79±2.54
35.72±0.58
-5.29±0.03
5.77±0.01
67.65±1.20
81.37±1.39
2.92±0.21
TABLE VI: Performance of RCAgent with different embedding
models. The OpenAI model is presented for reference.
Model
MTEB
BLEURT
BARTScore
GTE-LARGE
63.13
36.74
-5.43
Text-Embedding-Ada-002
60.99
-
-
MPNet
57.78
37.48
-5.44
ST5-BASE
55.27
36.08
-5.51
MiniLM-L12-multilingual
52.44
35.30
-5.65
Notably, results on these potential OoD jobs are from an
LLM agent neither fine-tuned on any AIOps field data nor
taught by human-crafted diagnostic procedures, underscoring
the capability of LLM’s autonomous decision-making.
Furthermore, equipped with TSC (LLM), RCAgent demon-
strates a precision of 81.37% in determining the responsibility.
This facilitates RCAgent as a feedback mechanism in our
company, aiding in the detection of potential platform-side
errors and bugs.
E. RQ5: How much does Self-Consistency improve agents of
different methods and sampling scales?
We study combinations of SC methods and sample counts
on the online dataset, each for 10 different runs. The results
are detailed in Fig. 8. Note that we join the predicted root
causes and solutions to compare with the ground truth for
more readable differences in scores. There exists a negligible
variance between LLM aggregation and embedding voting
with only one sampled path, resulting from LLM’s inclination
towards paraphrasing.
The statistics show that every SC method consistently
augments the performance of RCAgent in terms of BLEURT,
BARTScore, and NUBIA. This enhancement seems to plateau
when the number of samples reaches 20. Interestingly, when
limited to a single sample, the performance difference of
all SC methods compared to greedy decoding is marginal
rather than a substantial degradation as shown in [22]. Among
different methods, TSC brings superiority due to its diverse
action sampling. In all metrics, LLM aggregation outperforms
embedding voting, and this gap broadens with an increasing
number of samples, illustrating LLM aggregation’s ability to
offer more comprehensive results as the candidate pool grows.
VI. DISCUSSION AND LIMINATION
A. Sensitivity to the choice of embedding models
We test RCAgent with different embedding models including
MPNet [49], SentenceT5 [50], and MiniLM [51] with the
same experiment setting as § V-E. We select checkpoints of
these models based on their performance on the more general
MTEB [42] benchmark, to create a diversified spectrum of
model capabilities. As presented in TABLE VI, there is a
marginal correlation between RCAgent’s performance and the
capability of the embedding models. While this observation
indicates that embedding models can enhance RAG-style tools
grasped by LLM autonomous agents, it’s noteworthy that their
impact appears secondary to strategies like SC. Given this
understanding, one of the directions of further optimization is
training a domain-specific embedding model tuned on realistic
AIOps datasets, offering additional enhancements to RCAgent.
B. Future Works
We further discuss the limitations of the current autonomous
agents based on non-API models that remain open problems.
1) Trajectory Evaluation: Backtracking and path-searching
methods for agent action trajectories, such as Tree-of-
Thought [52], DFSDT [36], and Reflexion [23] are typical
strategies to enhance agent performance without external
intervention. However, we opt not to use these methods in our
current approach, primarily because these techniques demand
either well-defined heuristics or LLMs’ evaluation of states
and trajectories. As detailed in § III-C2, our approach merely
integrates error handling messages for only the most obvious
subset of erroneous states.
When addressing complex real-world tasks, well-defined
heuristics can be challenging, making LLM an intuitive solution
for a flexible and comprehensive trajectory evaluation method.
Yet, our empirical observation indicates a capability gap
between local-hosted and API-based models when it comes to
self-assessment. We conduct experiments to prompt our base
model and other similar-sized models to gauge the confidence
of a trajectory it generates. When asked to score, the model
can only offer 1 and 9, exhibiting a lack of diversity in its
assessments. When provided with descriptive criteria spanning
different confidence levels, the model engages in flawed
reasoning, conflating nuanced differences and delivering wholly
unjustifiable results. Based on this observation, there seems a
prevailing reliance on GPT’s unique power at self-evaluating
trajectories to perform backtracking and path-searching. Yet,
how this specialized competence can be gained by other models
remains underexplored.
2) Constrained Inference: LLMs are deployed as agents with
a free-form generation approach. However, this unconstrained
generation impairs the validity of actions such as tool invocation
when the model is not perfectly aligned.
As discussed in § III-C1, LLMs struggle to maintain
consistent structured output. This issue is evident even when
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
Fig. 8: Performance of Self-Consistency at different scales and methods. The solid line is the mean score, and the shade
represents the standard deviation. The score is calculated by comparing the solution and root cause with the ground truth.
the base model is ChatGPT, on which we observe the same
wrong structures when the complexity of content increases.
Our solution, although effective, is admittedly simplistic and
may not be adaptable to models with lesser capabilities.
Another challenge we encounter revolves around documenta-
tion adjustments. A significant portion of our efforts to achieve
an acceptable pass rate is spent grinding documentation to
ensure utmost clarity. This often means simplifying intricate
functionalities and logic, making them less extendable. Without
such meticulous adjustments, the agent risks invoking non-
existent functions or incorrectly parameterizing function calls.
Although GPT demonstrates proficiency in grasping a wide
array of APIs [36] and can even generate code as actions, other
models stumble in understanding the correct formats.
Given these observations, we underscore the urgency for
model-agnostic constrained inference with semantic constraints
such as those in formal grammar. Methods like [53], [54] offer
context-free grammar approaches by integrating the finite state
machine during decoding. However, they work in a completely
auto-regressively masking way, rendering them incapable of
rectifying former token-level violations such as wrong escaping,
and occasionally collapsing the generation due to enforcing
prefixes. Addressing this limitation is crucial for practical
applications of LLM agents and is a significant direction for
future exploration.
VII. RELATED WORK
A. LLM as Autonomous Agents
As LLMs demonstrate impressive capabilities [15], [16],
[55], some literatures [56]–[58] leverage these models to
construct LLM-based agents. Specifically, they use LLMs as
the main controllers for these agents, generatively utilizing
multimodal perception and exploring action space [27], [59],
[60]. A popular paradigm is autonomous agents [56], [61]–[64],
in which LLM agents explore self-directedly without human
intervention and step-by-step instructions. They perform tasks
with an action trajectory, adapting their intentions and outputs
according to the environment [65]. While autonomous agents
have been implemented and tested on a variety of toy tasks [31]
including database RCA in limited scenerios [66], our RCAgent
is the first work to introduce autonomous LLM agents to the
field of realistic cloud RCA tasks.
B. LLM Augmented by Tools
Recent studies [36], [59], [67], [68] have showcased the
proficiency of LLMs to invoke tools and make decisions across
a wide range of tasks. The tools, in the form of simple functions
or external APIs, extend LLM’s knowledge and capability
evidently [28], [69], [70]. While stronger LLM can easily
grasp tools and accomplish tasks with documentation, others
can be taught by generated and filtered trajectories [36], [59].
In this paper, we aim to augment agents with a comprehensive
toolset, extending the tool-using paradigm to the real-world
cloud RCA field.
C. Cloud RCA with LLMs
RCA in large cloud services is a prominent subject of study
within software engineering communities [71], [72]. A large
part of RCA is coupled with NLP due to subtasks like log
analysis [33], [34], [73]. As LLMs advance, they are leveraged
for cloud RCA tasks with fine-tuning [4], [25] or in-context
learning [8]. Besides, researchers calibrate confidences for few-
shot LLM-based RCA [26]. However, these models are not
aware of the data collection and analysis workflow of cloud
RCA, leaving them analytical tools in a sealed environment.
We thus investigate tool-augmented LLM as autonomous agents
for the complex and ever-changing environment of cloud RCA.
VIII. CONCLUSION
In this work, we introduce RCAgent, a tool-augmented
LLM autonomous agent tailored for cloud root cause analysis.
RCAgent ensures secure industrial usage of LLM agents in
cloud systems by utilizing internally deployed models instead
of powerful external ones like ChatGPT. Our methodology
encompasses a spectrum of enhancements including unique
Self-Consistency for action trajectories, a comprehensive
prompting framework, expert agents, and stabilization meth-
ods. Furthermore, RCAgent’s efficacy is demonstrated by its
practical application in the Real-time Compute Platform for
Apache Flink of Alibaba. In general, this work pioneers the
real-world application of LLM agents in the cloud RCA field.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
REFERENCES
[1] J. Chen, X. He, Q. Lin, Y. Xu, H. Zhang, D. Hao, F. Gao, Z. Xu, Y. Dang,
and D. Zhang, “An empirical investigation of incident triage for online
service systems,” in International Conference on Software Engineering:
Software Engineering in Practice, 2019, pp. 111–120.
[2] M. Ma, Y. Liu, Y. Tong, H. Li, P. Zhao, Y. Xu, H. Zhang, S. He, L. Wang,
Y. Dang et al., “An empirical investigation of missing data handling
in cloud node failure prediction,” in ACM Joint European Software
Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
Engineering, 2022, pp. 1453–1464.
[3] C. Zhang, T. Zhou, Q. Wen, and L. Sun, “TFAD: A decomposition time
series anomaly detection architecture with time-frequency analysis,” in
Proceedings of the 31st ACM International Conference on Information
& Knowledge Management, 2022, pp. 2497–2507.
[4] T. Ahmed, S. Ghosh, C. Bansal, T. Zimmermann, X. Zhang, and
S. Rajmohan, “Recommending root-cause and mitigation steps for cloud
incidents using large language models,” in International Conference on
Software Engineering, 2023, p. 1737–1749.
[5] Y. Zhang, Z. Guan, H. Qian, L. Xu, H. Liu, Q. Wen, L. Sun, J. Jiang,
L. Fan, and M. Ke, “CloudRCA: A root cause analysis framework
for cloud computing platforms,” in ACM International Conference on
Information & Knowledge Management, 2021, pp. 4373–4382.
[6] H. Nguyen, Z. Shen, Y. Tan, and X. Gu, “Fchain: Toward black-box online
fault localization for cloud systems,” in 2013 IEEE 33rd International
Conference on Distributed Computing Systems.
IEEE, 2013, pp. 21–30.
[7] P. Aggarwal, A. Gupta, P. Mohapatra, S. Nagar, A. Mandal, Q. Wang, and
A. Paradkar, “Localization of operational faults in cloud applications by
mining causal dependencies in logs using golden signals,” in International
Conference on Service-Oriented Computing, 2020, pp. 137–149.
[8] Y. Chen, H. Xie, M. Ma, Y. Kang, X. Gao, L. Shi, Y. Cao, X. Gao,
H. Fan, M. Wen et al., “Empowering practical root cause analysis by large
language models for cloud incidents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.15778,
2023.
[9] P. Chen, Y. Qi, and D. Hou, “CauseInfer: Automated end-to-end perfor-
mance diagnosis with hierarchical causality graph in cloud environment,”
IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 214–230,
2016.
[10] L. Wang, N. Zhao, J. Chen, P. Li, W. Zhang, and K. Sui, “Root-cause
metric location for microservice systems via log anomaly detection,” in
International Conference on Web Services, 2020, pp. 142–150.
[11] C. Zhang, Z. Zhou, Y. Zhang, L. Yang, K. He, Q. Wen, and L. Sun,
“NetRCA: an effective network fault cause localization algorithm,”
in IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing, 2022, pp. 9316–9320.
[12] Q. Cheng, D. Sahoo, A. Saha, W. Yang, C. Liu, G. Woo, M. Singh,
S. Saverese, and S. C. Hoi, “Ai for IT operations (AIOps) on cloud
platforms: Reviews, opportunities and challenges,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.04661, 2023.
[13] T. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, M. Subbiah, J. D. Kaplan, P. Dhariwal,
A. Neelakantan, P. Shyam, G. Sastry, A. Askell et al., “Language models
are few-shot learners,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2020, pp. 1877–1901.
[14] L. Ouyang, J. Wu, X. Jiang, D. Almeida, C. Wainwright, P. Mishkin,
C. Zhang, S. Agarwal, K. Slama, A. Ray et al., “Training language
models to follow instructions with human feedback,” in Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 2022, pp. 27 730–27 744.
[15] OpenAI, “OpenAI: Introducing ChatGPT,” 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt
[16] ——, “Gpt-4 technical report,” 2023.
[17] H. Touvron, T. Lavril, G. Izacard, X. Martinet, M.-A. Lachaux, T. Lacroix,
B. Rozi`ere, N. Goyal, E. Hambro, F. Azhar, A. Rodriguez, A. Joulin,
E. Grave, and G. Lample, “LLaMA: Open and efficient foundation
language models,” 2023.
[18] H. Touvron, L. Martin, K. Stone, P. Albert, A. Almahairi, Y. Babaei,
N. Bashlykov, S. Batra, P. Bhargava, S. Bhosale et al., “LLaMA 2: Open
foundation and fine-tuned chat models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288,
2023.
[19] H. W. Chung, L. Hou, S. Longpre, B. Zoph, Y. Tay, W. Fedus, E. Li,
X. Wang, M. Dehghani, S. Brahma et al., “Scaling instruction-finetuned
language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.11416, 2022.
[20] T. Kojima, S. S. Gu, M. Reid, Y. Matsuo, and Y. Iwasawa, “Large
language models are zero-shot reasoners,” in Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2022, pp. 22 199–22 213.
[21] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, F. Xia, E. Chi, Q. V.
Le, D. Zhou et al., “Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in
large language models,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2022, pp. 24 824–24 837.
[22] X. Wang, J. Wei, D. Schuurmans, Q. V. Le, E. H. Chi, S. Narang,
A. Chowdhery, and D. Zhou, “Self-consistency improves chain of thought
reasoning in language models,” in International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2023, pp. 1–24.
[23] N. Shinn, F. Cassano, E. Berman, A. Gopinath, K. Narasimhan, and
S. Yao, “Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning,”
in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[24] P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V. Karpukhin, N. Goyal,
H. K¨uttler, M. Lewis, W.-t. Yih, T. Rockt¨aschel et al., “Retrieval-
augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks,” in Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2020, pp. 9459–9474.
[25] P. Jin, S. Zhang, M. Ma, H. Li, Y. Kang, L. Li, Y. Liu, B. Qiao, C. Zhang,
P. Zhao et al., “Assess and summarize: Improve outage understanding
with large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.18084, 2023.
[26] D. Zhang, X. Zhang, C. Bansal, P. Las-Casas, R. Fonseca, and S. Raj-
mohan, “Pace: Prompting and augmentation for calibrated confidence
estimation with gpt-4 in cloud incident root cause analysis,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.05833, 2023.
[27] S. Yao, J. Zhao, D. Yu, N. Du, I. Shafran, K. R. Narasimhan, and
Y. Cao, “ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models,”
in International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023, pp. 1–33.
[28] S. Bubeck, V. Chandrasekaran, R. Eldan, J. Gehrke, E. Horvitz, E. Kamar,
P. Lee, Y. T. Lee, Y. Li, S. Lundberg et al., “Sparks of artificial
general intelligence: Early experiments with gpt-4,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.12712, 2023.
[29] S. Yao, H. Chen, J. Yang, and K. Narasimhan, “Webshop: Towards
scalable real-world web interaction with grounded language agents,” in
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2022, pp. 20 744–
20 757.
[30] M. Shridhar, X. Yuan, M.-A. Cote, Y. Bisk, A. Trischler, and
M. Hausknecht, “Alfworld: Aligning text and embodied environments
for interactive learning,” in International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2021, pp. 1–21.
[31] X. Liu, H. Yu, H. Zhang, Y. Xu, X. Lei, H. Lai, Y. Gu, H. Ding, K. Men,
K. Yang et al., “Agentbench: Evaluating llms as agents,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.03688, 2023.
[32] Z. Liu, W. Yao, J. Zhang, L. Xue, S. Heinecke, R. Murthy, Y. Feng,
Z. Chen, J. C. Niebles, D. Arpit et al., “BOLAA: Benchmarking
and orchestrating llm-augmented autonomous agents,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.05960, 2023.
[33] V.-H. Le and H. Zhang, “Log-based anomaly detection with deep learning:
How far are we?” in International Conference on Software Engineering,
2022, pp. 1356–1367.
[34] S. Locke, H. Li, T.-H. P. Chen, W. Shang, and W. Liu, “Logassist:
Assisting log analysis through log summarization,” IEEE Transactions
on Software Engineering, vol. 48, no. 9, pp. 3227–3241, 2021.
[35] A. Pal, D. Karkhanis, M. Roberts, S. Dooley, A. Sundararajan, and
S. Naidu, “Giraffe: Adventures in expanding context lengths in llms,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10882, 2023.
[36] Y. Qin, S. Liang, Y. Ye, K. Zhu, L. Yan, Y. Lu, Y. Lin, X. Cong, X. Tang,
B. Qian et al., “Toolllm: Facilitating large language models to master
16000+ real-world apis,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.16789, 2023.
[37] A. Holtzman, J. Buys, L. Du, M. Forbes, and Y. Choi, “The curious case
of neural text degeneration,” in International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2019, pp. 1–16.
[38] V. D. Blondel, J.-L. Guillaume, R. Lambiotte, and E. Lefebvre, “Fast
unfolding of communities in large networks,” Journal of statistical
mechanics: theory and experiment, vol. 2008, no. 10, p. P10008, 2008.
[39] L. Zheng, W.-L. Chiang, Y. Sheng, S. Zhuang, Z. Wu, Y. Zhuang, Z. Lin,
Z. Li, D. Li, E. Xing et al., “Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and
chatbot arena,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.05685, 2023.
[40] W. Kwon, Z. Li, S. Zhuang, Y. Sheng, L. Zheng, C. H. Yu, J. Gonzalez,
H. Zhang, and I. Stoica, “Efficient memory management for large
language model serving with pagedattention,” in Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles, 2023, p. 611–626.
[41] Z. Li, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, D. Long, P. Xie, and M. Zhang, “Towards
general text embeddings with multi-stage contrastive learning,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2308.03281, 2023.
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
[42] N. Muennighoff, N. Tazi, L. Magne, and N. Reimers, “MTEB: Massive
text embedding benchmark,” in European Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2023, pp. 2006–2029.
[43] S. Banerjee and A. Lavie, “METEOR: An automatic metric for mt
evaluation with improved correlation with human judgments,” in ACL
workshop on Intrinsic and Extrinsic Evaluation Measures for Machine
Translation and/or Summarization, 2005, pp. 65–72.
[44] T. Zhang, V. Kishore, F. Wu, K. Q. Weinberger, and Y. Artzi, “BERTScore:
Evaluating text generation with bert,” in International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2020, pp. 1–43.
[45] H. Kane, M. Y. Kocyigit, A. Abdalla, P. Ajanoh, and M. Coulibali,
“NUBIA: Neural based interchangeability assessor for text generation,”
in ACL Workshop on Evaluating NLG Evaluation, 2020, pp. 28–37.
[46] T. Sellam, D. Das, and A. Parikh, “BLEURT: Learning robust metrics
for text generation,” in Association for Computational Linguistics, 2020,
pp. 7881–7892.
[47] W. Yuan, G. Neubig, and P. Liu, “Bartscore: Evaluating generated text as
text generation,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
vol. 34, 2021, pp. 27 263–27 277.
[48] P. Gao, J. Han, R. Zhang, Z. Lin, S. Geng, A. Zhou, W. Zhang, P. Lu,
C. He, X. Yue et al., “Llama-adapter v2: Parameter-efficient visual
instruction model,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.15010, 2023.
[49] K. Song, X. Tan, T. Qin, J. Lu, and T.-Y. Liu, “Mpnet: Masked and
permuted pre-training for language understanding,” in Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2020, pp. 16 857–16 867.
[50] J. Ni, G. H. ´Abrego, N. Constant, J. Ma, K. B. Hall, D. Cer, and Y. Yang,
“Sentence-T5: Scalable sentence encoders from pre-trained text-to-text
models,” in Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
2022, pp. 1864–1874.
[51] W. Wang, F. Wei, L. Dong, H. Bao, N. Yang, and M. Zhou, “Minilm:
Deep self-attention distillation for task-agnostic compression of pre-
trained transformers,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2020, pp. 5776–5788.
[52] S. Yao, D. Yu, J. Zhao, I. Shafran, T. L. Griffiths, Y. Cao, and
K. Narasimhan, “Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with
large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.10601, 2023.
[53] S. Geng, M. Josifosky, M. Peyrard, and R. West, “Flexible grammar-
based constrained decoding for language models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.13971, 2023.
[54] B. T. Willard and R. Louf, “Efficient guided generation for large language
models,” arXiv e-prints, pp. arXiv–2307, 2023.
[55] J. Wei, Y. Tay, R. Bommasani, C. Raffel, B. Zoph, S. Borgeaud,
D. Yogatama, M. Bosma, D. Zhou, D. Metzler et al., “Emergent abilities
of large language models,” Transactions on Machine Learning Research,
pp. 1–30, 2022.
[56] J. S. Park, J. C. O’Brien, C. J. Cai, M. R. Morris, P. Liang, and M. S.
Bernstein, “Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03442, 2023.
[57] T. Sumers, S. Yao, K. Narasimhan, and T. L. Griffiths, “Cognitive
architectures for language agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.02427,
2023.
[58] Z. Xi, W. Chen, X. Guo, W. He, Y. Ding, B. Hong, M. Zhang, J. Wang,
S. Jin, E. Zhou et al., “The rise and potential of large language model
based agents: A survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.07864, 2023.
[59] T. Schick, J. Dwivedi-Yu, R. Dess`ı, R. Raileanu, M. Lomeli, L. Zettle-
moyer, N. Cancedda, and T. Scialom, “Toolformer: Language models
can teach themselves to use tools,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04761,
2023.
[60] P. Lu, B. Peng, H. Cheng, M. Galley, K.-W. Chang, Y. N. Wu, S.-C.
Zhu, and J. Gao, “Chameleon: Plug-and-play compositional reasoning
with large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.09842, 2023.
[61] Z. Wang, G. Zhang, K. Yang, N. Shi, W. Zhou, S. Hao, G. Xiong, Y. Li,
M. Y. Sim, X. Chen et al., “Interactive natural language processing,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13246, 2023.
[62] Significant-Gravitas, “Autogpt: the heart of the open-source agent ecosys-
tem,” https://github.com/Significant-Gravitas/Auto-GPT, 2023, gitHub
repository.
[63] L. Wang, C. Ma, X. Feng, Z. Zhang, H. Yang, J. Zhang, Z. Chen,
J. Tang, X. Chen, Y. Lin et al., “A survey on large language model based
autonomous agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.11432, 2023.
[64] yoheinakajima, “Babyagi,” https://github.com/yoheinakajima/babyagi,
2023, gitHub repository.
[65] R. Liu, R. Yang, C. Jia, G. Zhang, D. Zhou, A. M. Dai, D. Yang, and
S. Vosoughi, “Training socially aligned language models in simulated
human society,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.16960, 2023.
[66] X.
Zhou,
G.
Li,
and
Z.
Liu,
“Llm
as
dba,”
arXiv
preprint
arXiv:2308.05481, 2023.
[67] S. Vemprala, R. Bonatti, A. Bucker, and A. Kapoor, “Chatgpt for robotics:
Design principles and model abilities,” Technical Report MSR-TR-2023-8,
Microsoft, vol. 2, p. 20, 2023.
[68] Y. Qin, S. Hu, Y. Lin, W. Chen, N. Ding, G. Cui, Z. Zeng, Y. Huang,
C. Xiao, C. Han et al., “Tool learning with foundation models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2304.08354, 2023.
[69] J. Ruan, Y. Chen, B. Zhang, Z. Xu, T. Bao, G. Du, S. Shi, H. Mao,
X. Zeng, and R. Zhao, “TPTU: Task planning and tool usage of large
language model-based AI agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.03427,
2023.
[70] M. Li, F. Song, B. Yu, H. Yu, Z. Li, F. Huang, and Y. Li, “API-Bank: A
benchmark for tool-augmented llms,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.08244,
2023.
[71] H. Chen, W. Dou, Y. Jiang, and F. Qin, “Understanding exception-
related bugs in large-scale cloud systems,” in International Conference
on Automated Software Engineering, 2019, pp. 339–351.
[72] S. Ghosh, M. Shetty, C. Bansal, and S. Nath, “How to fight production
incidents? an empirical study on a large-scale cloud service,” in
Symposium on Cloud Computing, 2022, pp. 126–141.
[73] H. Guo, S. Yuan, and X. Wu, “LogBERT: Log anomaly detection via
bert,” in International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, 2021, pp.
1–8.
14
